# FCP-CSC-19-2024
DESIGN AND SIMULATION OF THREE PHASE TRAFFIC LIGHT MONITORING AND ALARMING SYSTEM FOR TRAFFIC OFFENDER  
This project offer a modern way through the use of infrared proximity sensors, will detect vehicles passing through a specific lane when traffic lights do not dictate movement to this lane. So, the traffic conditions on the road can be known and predicted. 
THE PROCEDURE 
In this work, simulation represents the behaviors of a real three phase traffic light system over time. The simulation of this work contains the designed circuit diagram of three phase traffic light and the programming code that will monitor the operation of Arduino Nano.
The circuit of this work was designed using Proteus Software V8.13. While the programming coding was done using Arduino IDE -1.8.19- software and the coding was synchronized to the Arduino nano by copying the hex file of programming code to Arduino nano. All the Arduino Nano’s pins were declared and setting the pin’s function was done in the programming.  
In figure 3.2 above, IR Proximity sensor is used in each and every phase of traffic light control. Arduino nano is programmed internally using the Arduino Software to monitor the whole system. The entire components in the system (i.e. sensors, LEDs, buzzer etc.) were connected to Arduino Nano, so that the whole system will be monitored by it. The green, yellow and red LED of phase 1 was connected to D0, D12 and D8 respectively. The green, yellow and red LEDs of phase 2 were connected to D10, D9 and D8 respectively, while those of phase 3 were connected to A3, A4 and A5 respectively. Sensor 1, sensor 2 and sensor 3 were connected to D1, D13 and D3 respectively. 2V is applied to the input source of the Arduino Nano. 
